We just installed the cookie session library not to make use of it inside of a project.
We first have to wire it up to our project.
We can't just start accessing it directly on this line of code.
So let me show you how to use this library very quickly.
I'm going to first go up to the very top of my index dot J.S. file and right after the body parser require
statement I'm going to require in cookie session as well.
The cookie session library is a middleware function just like body parser is.
So in order to make use of cookies session inside of our project we're going to wired up to our app
object by using the app don't use function.
So right after body parser I will call app that use I'll then pass in cookie session.
I'm going to call it like a function and I'm going to pass in a configuration object inside of this
configuration object that we're passing off to Cookie session.
We're going to provide exactly one property that property is he's at is going to be an array.
The first element inside this array is going to be a string with some random characters inside of it.
Like so you can use any random series of characters that you want fully up to you what you use.
Let me tell you exactly why we're adding in this information right here.
Remember just a moment ago I told you inside this diagram that we've got a cookie that is going to include
some users I.D. So whenever a user or specifically a browser makes a request to our server they're going
to include that cookie and that includes some identifying information inside of it.
Now here is something that would be very bad if we allowed it to occur if a user was able to go into
their cookie which remember is really just a random string of characters.
And if they could change the information inside there at random or at will I should say.
So if I was the user with I.D. too and I went into my cookie and changed that little number right there
to 10 instead now whenever I make a request to the server the server would look at the cookie that I
including they would see user idea of 10 and now they use the server would assume that I was the user
with an idea of 10.
So in other words if a user could very easily modify the contents of a cookie they could pretend that
they were someone who they are not.
So to prevent that from happening we add on this Keyes property over here.
This Keyes property is used to encrypt all the information that is stored inside the cookie.
So to a user it really truly will just appear to be a random string of characters and they will not
be able to decipher it or let alone make any changes to the information stored inside their just to
really drill home how important this encryption is.
Well really just a moment ago when we were making use of base camp you saw me pull out all that information
from the cookie header and add it into my API clients.
And so clearly a user can very easily get access to that cookie string itself.
And so if it was easy to decrypt and change the information side there it would be absolutely trivial
to pretend that you were someone else inside of an application.
So that is why it is so important to encrypt the information that we are storing inside of a cookie.
The cookie session library is going to do that for us automatically so long as we include this key string
right here.
This Keyes array of strings is essentially the encryption key that is going to be used to encrypt all
that data if you ever set a cookie on a user's browser and then come back and change this key in any
way.
So let's say delete some characters add characters or change.
That means that you're going to have a different encryption key and that means all of sudden that all
the cookies you had set before are no longer going to be accessible because even you do not have the
encryption key any longer okay.
So that's all we have to do to wire up the cookie session library.
So what impact does that really have to our project well the only thing that cookie session really does
as far as you and I can tell as developers is add in an additional property to our rec object.
So remember every request handler we put together is going to have this rack as an argument.
The Rec object represents the incoming request the cookie session library ads on exactly one additional
property to that Rec object the additional property that gets added in is rec dot session that is added
by Cookie a session if we were not using the cookie session library court session would not exist at
all wrecked out session property is going to be an object.
It's like a plain javascript object.
You and I can add in as many properties as we wish to this object right here.
If we add in any properties to this object whenever we call resort sent the cookie session library is
going to automatically look at the object and take a look at any information on it that you and I changed.
It's then going to take a lot information encoded into a simple string and then attach it as the disunity
attach it to the outgoing response as the cookie.
That should be stored on the user's browser.
It's a long story short the DOT session property is going to be an object.
Any information we throw inside there is going to be automatically maintained by cookies session for
us now if we want to store the idea of the user that we just generated inside of this person's cookie
or essentially whoever just made the request.
We're going to just add in a new property to the rect session object so we'll say rec not session not
user I.D. is user dot I.D. a user dot IDE or user I.D. right here that doesn't have to be user I.D.
again record session is an object so we can add in any property name we want.
We could have had this instead be something like idea of person making this request or something like
that.
But having just user I.D. definitely makes a little bit more sense okay.
So now our users should be automatically getting signed into our application whenever they sign up for
an account specifically because we are setting some information on the users.
Cookie let's now save this and do a quick test.
I'm gonna go back over I'm gonna go back to local host three thousand I'm going to enter in an email
that I've never signed up with before.
Remember you probably have already signed up with an email so check your user start Jace on file make
sure you don't have any email inside of here that you're going to have about to reuse because otherwise
you're just gonna get an error very quickly.
I'm going to use test 1 at test dot com I'll then enter in some matching passwords I'll hit sign up
and I see a account created.
Now if you have your network request tab open right now take a look at the request that we just made
so I click on this.
I'll see if I made a post request to local host 3000.
And now very importantly I'll see some information I didn't see before on the response headers.
So the response we got back in server server we had some headers and now we see a set cookie inside
of here.
So we now have a cookie that was provided to us from our server of that string right there.
And we also have something called a session signature the session signature is what makes sure that
we didn't tamper with our cookie in any way.
So this is something as provided by Cookie session.
The information that you and I are actually storing is really included inside of this set express call
in session property so that string right there in encrypted format contains all the information that
we just stored on the session object.
So it includes the user I.D. key and the value of whatever the user I.D. actually is.
It's now to really make sure that this work correctly.
I'm going to go back up to my root request handler where we show the form inside of here inside the
div specifically I'm going to add in a reference to a javascript variable I'm going to try to print
out the I.D. of the person who just made this request I'm going to know the idea of the person who just
made the request because remember that rec object right there is going to automatically be given that
session property the one we just spoke about a moment ago at session property is managed by Cookie session.
So when ever any request comes into our application we should be able to look at Rec not session and
that will be the same object we set up a little bit ago.
We'll have all the same information all the same properties.
And it's going to be a 100 percent customized for the user who just made the request to our server inside
of here.
I'll say rec not session dot user I.D. and I'll put a little text in front of it and say something like
your I.D. is like so OK.
I'm gonna say this once again and go back over.
I'm going to navigate back to local three thousand and now I can see your ideas blah blah blah.
So clearly we have some information being stored with my browser.
That information is being sent to the server whenever I make a request hooky session is going to intercept
the request.
It's going to decode all the information stored inside the cookie and attach it to the rec session object.
And so now anywhere inside of our application as long as we have access to that rec object we can identify
whether or not this person is signed in based upon the presence of rec not session that user I.D..
In other words if this property right here is defined that means that this person making the request
has signed up or signed in to our application and that's it.
That is authentication in a nutshell.
OK so we've now gone through the entire flow of basic authentication or at least sign up.
We still have to cover signing in and signing out.
So we're going to take care of that stuff very quickly and we're going to start to do a bigger refactor
to our code base.
We're gonna solve a couple of security issues.
We're going to generally just organize our code in a fashion that will make it easier to expand our
app in the future as well.
So a quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.